we'll start with one of the most recent
and shocking discoveries of 2020
perhaps our solar system has life beyond
earth
this is venus the second planet from the
sun
and the sister of our home planet
it's called so because it has a similar
size and mass
but the conditions on it are simply
terrible the temperature on its surface
reaches 890 degrees fahrenheit
because of the greenhouse effect and the
atmospheric pressure on it
is as strong as if you were 3 000 feet
under water
but in this hostile world there can
actually be life
for many years there have been
discussions on this subject
in 2007 scientists discovered there once
had been an ocean
on venus that is in the distant past
there could have been some form of life
but in the fall of 2020 there was an
epic argument
in which scientists tried to find out
whether life on venus exists
right now in september the discovery of
a new
life marker on venus was announced
the alma telescope in the atacama desert
found phosphine gas above the planet and
the amount of this gas
suggested that it may have been produced
by certain microorganisms
but already in october the data was
analyzed again
and the new results indicate it was an
error
so today we consider venus to be
uninhabited once more
but who knows maybe soon we'll get new
data
and new disputes will arise in
scientific circles
and while some scientists are scratching
their heads and still concentrating on
venus
others have looked into distant space
and discovered 24 planets on which life
can exist
and on all of them living conditions are
much better than on earth
such planets are called super habitable
these super planets must be 1.3 times
larger than the earth
and twice as massive thus they will have
stronger gravity
and as a consequence a denser and warmer
atmosphere
so the climate on super habitable
planets must be similar to the tropical
climate on earth
this will ensure the maximum diversity
of living organisms
the host star of such a planet must be a
red dwarf
they're much smaller than the sun and
not so bright
but their lifespan can reach 70 billion
years
for comparison the lifespan of the sun
is seven
times shorter and it's already past half
of it
slow and steady wins the race it will
give enough time for potential
life to develop and evolve
and here's a suitable planet for the
title of super habitable
kepler-1649c in 2020
it was named the most similar planet to
earth
it's only six percent larger than our
home world
it orbits a red dwarf a quarter the size
of our sun
the planet is in the habitable zone of
the star and makes a complete circle
around it
in 19.5 days the climate on kepler
remains a mystery it's known to receive
about 75 percent of the light we get
from the sun
so the temperature on its surface may be
close to earth's
but we still don't know the composition
of the atmosphere and other necessary
conditions for life to appear there
the next discovery is one of the most
amazing spectacles ever seen by humanity
it's the collision of a star with a
black hole
in september 2019 scientists began
watching how
for six months a sun-like star was being
spaghettified
light from this event traveled 215
million light years
and we saw a star about 860 000 miles
wide
slurped up by a black hole
this black disc is so heavy that it has
incredibly strong gravity
nothing can leave its gravitational
field and now we see a star
slowly approaching it first the glowing
light layers of the star begin to
stretch
towards the black hole it looks as if
the star is simply unrolling
like a ball of thread then we see this
hot plasma
lingering at the edges of the black hole
and it may seem these particles are now
orbiting it
but it's just an illusion this ring of
light is called the event horizon
the black hole curves not only space but
time as well
this close to it time slows down
to the observer it looks as if the light
near the edge of the black disk has
almost stopped
but in fact it has long been absorbed by
the dark abyss
when a black hole eats a certain amount
of star material
it starts spitting it out powerful beams
of energy are ejected
at speeds of over 6 000 miles per second
this is the light that attracted
scientists attention
in the end the black hole has completely
absorbed about half of the star
and spit out the other half into space
and even though we watched this process
for only a couple of minutes
it was happening for six months
and here is one of the youngest
planetary systems that humanity has ever
observed
au microscopii it's so young
there's still a disc around it from the
debris this system was made of
but this time we don't even hope to find
life here
the host star of this exoplanet
continually emits radiation flares
that would wipe out any form of life
from the planet's surface
the planet that orbits this dangerous
star is called
a you mcb and it's just a newborn baby
by astronomical standards
it's so close to its star that it makes
a complete circle around it
in 8.5 days the age of this planet is
only 12 million years
so at the time au mcb was born mastodons
walked on the surface of our planet and
meadows and savannas were covering the
earth's face
so you and i can consider ourselves
old-timers
because the age of the earth is almost
4.5 billion years
the next discovery took place in early
2020 and it's very similar to a
landscape from science fiction
it's a planet with two suns well more
precisely
it doesn't orbit around a single star as
we are used to in our solar system
but around a binary star system toi
1338 the first big star
is like the sun the other is a red dwarf
which is three times smaller
these stars completely circle each other
in a little over 14 days
the planet that orbits these stars is
the size of saturn
which is much larger than the earth
although the sunsets and sunrises there
look incredibly beautiful this planet is
unlikely to be suitable for
any form of life it's outside the
habitable zone of its host stars
so it probably doesn't have liquid water
mysterious radio signals from outer
space have also been received in 2020
we're talking about fast radio bursts
scientists recorded such signals before
but recently they have managed to prove
that they are repeated
after a certain period of time the new
data have forced the scientists to come
up with a very bold theory
that their source may be a magnetar
a magnetar is a neutron star that is
small
and has a huge mass compared to ordinary
stars like the sun
but they have the strongest magnetic
field in the entire universe
their lifetime is very short though only
one million years
but what baffled scientists the most
this year was discovering
that the moon is rusting corrosion needs
oxygen
and water to take place but the moon
doesn't have its own atmosphere to have
both
the main theory says the solar wind is
to blame
it moves at great speed and scrapes
oxygen
from the upper layers of the earth's
atmosphere the wind continues to carry
oxygen molecules through space and
eventually
they reach the surface of the moon and
cause metal ore
to rust by the way
the signature red color of mars was
created because of the rust
for a long time there was an atmosphere
and water
in combination with iron on its surface
it triggered a long process of rusting
which has lasted since ancient times
another stunning discovery was found on
the surface of the moon
with a stratospheric telescope it's an
aircraft that carries a telescope
the plane raises it to an altitude of
eight miles
and this allows it to have a picture
quality comparable to that of space
telescopes
and with the help of such an unusual
observatory
scientists were able to find water on
the surface of the moon
water molecules were found in one of the
largest craters
on the visible side of the satellite but
the number of water molecules is still
extremely small there
the sahara desert has about 100 times
more water
than the surface of the moon